[MUSIC]
>> Jon Kuperman: I think just from,
however many people slamming the API
thatwe ran out of reads from GitHub.
So I'll probably pick a different
example for next time I do the workshop.
Sorry about that,
if anybody was getting, like, whatever,
400s that we exceeded that.
So, but basically you could
take different approaches.
One approach that I had kind of covered
before, before if you didn't know
what JavaScript was coming down, is that
you could go in the Elements tab and
you could find this list here basically,
this repositories list.
And then you could say give me
a breakpoint whenever you do a subtree
modification.
So then you can go back up here and type
and it'll go ahead and stop for you and
it'll say here I am this script
is black-boxed in the debugger.
So I think, just to back up,
because this was like the main
problem people were having,
I think that The black-boxing seems to
only work when you're in stepping mode.
If you have these like dom breakpoints
set, it seems to ignore the black-boxing.
It's a little ironic that it's like,
this won't show up, and then it shows up.
So if we just keep kind of stepping
through, that might take a while.
But we get to this like empty current
list, is basically where we get to.
And all I did was I just kept stepping
over jQuery functions til I was out of
jQuery.
So this is like one way that you
could see what's being called.
Another way that you could have done it
is just looking at like maybe the network
tab, and seeing what JavaScript is
coming down, and opening one of those.
Or you could command P
from the sources tab and
just see what .JS files you had
available and add some break points.
So just to kinda like show, I'm gonna go
ahead down to these break points here,
and I'm gonna remove the one that
I have and just play it through.
So like another thing you could have just
done is Command+P see what JS there is.
We don't want these library files,
you could find this one and
just start adding some breakpoints
to see if this is getting executed.
Either way any approach you take
you end up on debugging.js.
And you've just got like
something's going on here.
One thing that is kind of
hard to get your head around
is you can only put these breakpoints on
executable lines, so not declarations.
This is something I always struggle with,
so
you can't put a breakpoint on this
line here, like this success.
Which seems like really
counter intuitive because
that's where you want to put the line.
So you have to do it on something
executable like line ten where you're
actually executing something.
So one thing you could have done, there's
a couple of parts when I saw people doing
was you put a breakpoint on the error
callback, and on the success callback.
We can remove this one and
then you can kind of play it through.
Oops, still got one here.
And so then we see we get into error.
And then you can start tons
different approaches here.
One that I might recommend is to be like,
okay so
when you're in error, the only thing
you have locally scoped here is data.
So you can kinda take
a peek at what's data.
So I'll edit this watch thing,
add data as an object.
And then you can kinda look
through all this stuff, right.
And you see, what's this response text.
So you could either slide this
over to make it bigger, or
you can change data to data.Responsetext.
And we get this not found,
because we all hit the API too many times.
But either way what was going
on before the API had stopped
working was that we were at,
I think we're just at a bad URL for
it, and then you can kind of step through.
Sorry that they example broke.
You can kind of step through maybe
black box, low dash as well.
And then the other thing that was going
on, which I can't demonstrate right now,
is that when we were
getting into insert HTML,
we were inserting repo.title
which does not exist.
So if you were to break here and
examine repo I think it's called
repo.name or something like that.
So yeah, again sorry that GitHub
stopped taking our requests,
this is a bigger class
than I'm used to teaching.
But hopefully, at least through
the examples that we did together,
we were able to start getting comfortable,
yeah?
>> Speaker 2: Can you talk about
pausing on subtree modifications and
what's that actually doing?
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah, definitely.
>> Speaker 2: I think I kind of know but
I'm a little confused as to how
that links to the actual JavaScript
file that's written.
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah absolutely.
So it's basically, one of the cool things
about this being, Chrome being your
debugger, is it's it is also the browser
that is in charge of rendering stuff.
And so basically what you're able to do
is when you say subtree modification or
attribute change or whatever,
you're telling Chrome
when you go to repaint this area,
will you tell me why you're doing that?
And so basically what you would notice
from the way that we had it before, so
let me remove these breakpoints and
put this one back.
So this is the subtree
modification that I had.
And you go to type something as it,
where am I at come on I lost that one.
Let me go ahead, and it is selected here.
Okay so it's like why did you
go to repaint that list and
it's like I went because this append child
is getting called with this element.
Very specifically this
is the line of jQuery
that is in charge of re-rendering
that area of the screen.
>> Speaker 2: So
that's why it stopped there.
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah, so it's the actual
line, the last line of JavaScript that
executes before it actually makes
a visual change to the screen.
So this is where the black-boxing
comes in, though,
is because if you're using any DOM
libraries or you're using reactors,
using jQuery or anything like that, you're
not gonna get your change first, right?
Cuz it's like, you call li append, and
then it goes into jQuery's append or
whatever.
So just something that maybe
you can keep in mind is that
it's usually not your application
code that causes the,
unless you're just doing
a pure Vanilla JavaScript app.
But that's why it stops there.
Did you have one, too?
>> Speaker 3: Are there
any specific rules for
the tool tip method of looking
at the contents of an object.
Like when you're hovering over, for
example when we were in debugger.
We could hover over in the repository or
debugging.JS.
>> Jon Kuperman: Yep.
>> Speaker 3: We could hover
over a given function and
look at the object that was
being passed in as the argument.
But at least in my personal experience,
sort of trying to fuzzily work
with these particular tool-tips sometimes
they work and sometimes they don't.
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah.
So they're not, I mean yeah.
Ultimately you just want to add stuff
like data to your watch column.
However in smaller examples,
it can be really nice.
If all data contained
was an array of numbers,
it can be really nice to just like pause
there and just, a time saver a little bit.
But when you work with
anything substantial,
the data response object from
a jQuery AJAX call is enormous.
Yeah, it's not good.
It's not going to be super useful.
Once in a while the tooltip is enough,
and that's I need and
it kind of help save some time.
But, yeah,
I think it's just a little helper maybe.
>> Speaker 4: One question from on
line from Richie is, is the watch but
can you alter values within the watch
panel or is it just for watching?
>> Jon Kuperman: Yes, so
watching you can't change the values but
you can take them.
So like data response text is here and
we're paused.
And so you can take them into the console
and type data.responsetext and
here we go, and
now you could do something like that.
So you can drag them into the console and
change them that way.
>> Jon Kuperman: Cool, yeah, so
step through debugging's really powerful.
My biggest advice is just play with it.
It's such an intimidating UI,
but it's really harmless, and
it's really helpful for
better understanding apps.
And whenever I start a new job,
I use the dev tools and
particularly step through debugging a lot
just like understand, how' is it working.
One other cool thing which
can be kind of a nightmare.
I hadn't talked about these so
you got these two handy things,
deactivate all break points.
And this is great when you kind of get
into a nest of like you've got 13 things
and you're like,
I just want it to resume execution.
You can just temporarily
turn them all off.
You can also pause on any
single JavaScript exception.
So basically, it depends totally on
your app, but this is again, any
time any JavaScript errors anything throws
at any point in any library or whatever.
So you can just have no breakpoint set
pause on all JavaScript exceptions.
And run your production app and
see, is there stuff that's,
because a lot of times
stuff gets swallowed.
Just cuz you throw an error doesn't
mean you catch it and handle it.
And that's true with all libraries.
So it can be kind of cool to turn on
pause on all exceptions and click
around on your production app and see
All the errors that are being generated.
If there are,
not saying that you guys write errors.
But it can be kind of cool,
with bigger apps you're going to
get a lot of exceptions, right?
Because a lot of libraries throw and
catch exceptions,
even when everything's working just fine.
But, again, it can be a cool way
to learn how your app works.
Cool, so I'm gonna